In the past years the share of people having a vegetarian or vegan diary has increased worldwirde. In the US the market for vegan food products only has reached 2.22 bn USD. An important reason contributing to this development is the rising awareness of the ecological and environmental consequences of meat consumption. As the world population is increasing and hence the demand for meat worldwide as well, a lot of people switch to alternative nutrition behaviors. This development creates new chances in a growing market. One of these might be to open a vegetarian or vegan restaurant. Opening a restaurant comes with a lot of risks and requires a well thought business plan that contains and a carefull study of the supply and demand in the specific area. This analysis will focus on the supply side of vegetarian and vegan restaurants in New York City and will provide an overview of the market in each borough of NYC. This can also be useful for tourists who just want to explore the vegan and vegetarian food culture in Big Apple. I will use venue data obtained using the Foursquare API to analyize the number of vegetarian and vegan restaurants in each borough. Additionally, I will create a density map where I will show how many vegetarian and vegan restaurants exist compared to the total number of restaurants in the specific borough. This helps to identify if their is already a solid supply of vegetarian and vegan food or if shortage can be identified.

Manhatten and Brooklyn offer the highest density, and the highest total number of vegetarian and vegan restaurants. They also include the 5 neighborhoods with the highest total numbers among all neighborhoods. Queens and Staten Island offer much fewer restaurants and there is not one vegetarian or vegan restaurant in the Bronx within 500m radius arund each of its neighborhoods.

There are some assumptions made in this analysis that limit its explanatory power. The numbers for each restaurants only include counts within a 500m defined radius around each neighborhood. Also no statement about the purchasing power within each neighborhood can be made. Further, lots of potentially important variables are omitted. The analysis still offers a broad assessment of NYC's vegetarian and vegan restaurant scenery. The results might be interesting not only for potential restaurant owners but also for interested tourists visiting the city. While in NYC it seems that the number of vegetarian and vegan restaurants are relatively uneven distributed among the neighborhoods (only 32 out of 300 neighborhoods offer a vegetarian/vegan choice), it would be interesting to see how the respective food scenery is represented in other big cities in the world.
